Add more information to the documentation contribution guide (#157)
napari/docs: docs/developers/documentation/index.md

4. Changes to how [napari.org](https://napari.org/dev) appears site-wide are made to the
[napari-sphinx-theme](https://github.com/napari/napari-sphinx-theme).

(contributing-without-local-setup)=
## Contributing to the napari documentation without a local setup

If you would like to see new documentation added to napari or want to see changes to existing documentation, but are not clear on these instructions or don't have the time to write it yourself, you can [open an issue](https://github.com/napari/docs/issues/new/choose).
If you are adding new documentation or modifying existing documentation and would prefer a simpler workflow than the local setup guide described below,
you can use the GitHub web interface to open your pull request
by either [uploading file(s) from your computer](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/adding-a-file-to-a-repository),
[creating and editing a new file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/creating-new-files)
or [editing an existing file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files)

> on the [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) GitHub repository.

Reviewer: I love this, can we also add a note about doing this from your fork through a feature branch?

Author: Committed to add - "You can also first [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) repository to your own GitHub account, create a [feature branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository#creating-a-branch), upload/create/edit files through the GitHub web interface, and then [open a pull request from your fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) back to [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs)."

You will also be able to [preview the documentation](use-ci-artifacts) as it would appear on [napari.org](https://napari.org/dev) by

> downloading the built documentation via a link provided by a comment from the `github-actions` bot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
downloading the built documentation via a link provided by a comment from the `github-actions` bot, or previewing a live version of the website corresponding to your changes on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/).
```

## Organization of the documentation

The napari documentation is built from multiple sources that are organised into repositories:
1. The main napari documentation is built from sources located at the
[napari/docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) repository on GitHub.
That repository is where all the narrative documentation (e.g. tutorials, how-to

> guides) pull requests should be made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That repository is where all the narrative documentation (e.g. tutorials, how-to
guides, etc. on napari.org) pull requests should be made.
```

[napari-sphinx-theme](https://github.com/napari/napari-sphinx-theme).

(contributing-without-local-setup)=
## Contributing to the napari documentation without a local setup

If you would like to see new documentation added to napari or want to see changes to existing documentation, but are not clear on these instructions or don't have the time to write it yourself, you can [open an issue](https://github.com/napari/docs/issues/new/choose).

If you are adding new documentation or modifying existing documentation and would prefer a simpler workflow than the local setup guide described below,
you can use the GitHub web interface to open your pull request
by either [uploading file(s) from your computer](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/adding-a-file-to-a-repository),
[creating and editing a new file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/creating-new-files)
or [editing an existing file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files)
on the [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) GitHub repository.

> You can also first [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) repository to your own GitHub account, create a [feature branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository#creating-a-branch), upload/create/edit files through the GitHub web interface, and then [open a pull request from your fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) back to [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's best if you first [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) the [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) repository to your own GitHub account, create a [feature branch](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository#creating-a-branch), upload/create/edit files through the GitHub web interface, and then [open a pull request from your fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) back to [napari-docs](https://github.com/napari/docs).
```

You will also be able to [preview the documentation](use-ci-artifacts) as it would appear on [napari.org](https://napari.org/dev) by

> downloading the built documentation via a link provided by a comment from the `github-actions` bot, or previewing a live version of the website corresponding to your changes on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using the `Check the rendered docs here!` action at the bottom of your PR which will go to a preview site on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/).
```

I don't think the bot is a thing anymore, just the CicleCi.

Reviewer 2: It is possible to download the build artifact though...

(prerequisites)=
## Prerequisites for a local setup to contribute to the napari documentation

Prerequisites depend on the type of contribution you wish to make. In general,
you will require:

- Some familiarity with [`git`](https://git-scm.com).
- A [GitHub](https://github.com) account.

```{note}
The napari documentation is built using `make` which does not work on paths which contain spaces.
It is important that you clone the `napari/docs` repository to a path that does not contain spaces.
For example, `C:\Users\myusername\Documents\GitHub\napari-docs` is a valid path, but \
`C:\Users\my username\Documents\GitHub\napari-docs` is not.
```

You should first [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)
and clone the [napari/napari](https://github.com/napari/napari) and the [napari/docs](https://github.com/napari/docs) repo to your
machine. Next, navigate to your local clone of the `napari/docs` repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/napari.git

> git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/docs.git napari-docs

Reviewer 3: Github does not allow for authorization via username and password. So it may be hard to push to repositories created in this way, as it may need to set up token authorization with not-so-good documentation and less googlable errors.

Author: Yeah that's a good point thanks @Czaki, I've gotten so used to the token authentication that I forgot this can be a bit awkward.

Do you think the SSH setup steps are clearer? I.e. changing that to
```
git clone git@github.com:<your-username>/napari.git
git clone git@github.com:<your-username>/docs.git napari-docs
```

Or would you recommend something else?

Reviewer 3: I prefer to check the current state of github documentation (I do not have time for this today) and do as they suggest and put link to their documentation somewhere. It will reduce the maintenance burden. 

Based on my memory, they suggest ssh.

Author: It doesn't seem to recommend any particular option from what I can see in the [Cloning a repository guide](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository). However, there is a helpful [Troubleshooting cloning guide](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/troubleshooting-cloning-errors) which would probably good to to put in the docs.

Reviewer 2: What about the `gh` command line tool? Is that a solution? it has some other upside like checking out PRs.

## Organization of the documentation

> The napari documentation is built from multiple sources that are organised into repositories:

Reviewer: nit: we mostly use American spelling so we may need to decide on a style guide for this?

```suggestion
The napari documentation is built from multiple sources that are organized into repositories:
```

Author: Yeah a style guide sounds good on this!

guides, etc. on napari.org) pull requests should be made.
This narrative napari documentation is written in
[MyST markdown](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html),
a version of [commonmark](https://spec.commonmark.org/) Markdown
(see a [markdown cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet))
with some additional features.
2. Some of the documentation about [plugins](https://napari.org/plugins) resides in
the [napari/npe2](https://github.com/napari/npe2) repository
(e.g. the [contributions reference page](https://napari.org/plugins/contributions.html)) and should be modified there.
This is documentation is written with [Jinja](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/).
3. Changes to docstrings (for the [API reference](https://napari.org/stable/api/index.html)) or to the
[examples gallery](https://napari.org/gallery) should be made to the
[napari/napari](https://github.com/napari/napari) repository (see also
[the guide on adding examples to the gallery](add-examples)).
4. Changes to how [napari.org](https://napari.org/dev) appears site-wide are made to the

> [napari-sphinx-theme](https://github.com/napari/napari-sphinx-theme).

Reviewer: One thing that jumps out to me here is that we don't mention API documentation at all, but this is important. So maybe we need

```
5. The [API reference documentation](https://napari.org/dev/api/index.html) is autogenerated from the napari source code docstrings. Docstrings are written in the [reStructuredText format](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html) and any modifications to them should be submitted to the [napari/napari](https://github.com/napari/napari) repository.
```

Author: The API is briefly mentioned in point 3 as coming from the docstrings, but I like pulling that out into a separate point so will do, thanks.
I'll make point 3 about updating the examples gallery and pull the API mention into point 5 as you suggested

`your-notebook.md`. Edit this file to include the relevant sections from the docs template.
```

```{admonition} How to check for broken links
:class: tip

If you have modified lots of document links, you can check that they all work by running `make linkcheck-files` in the `napari/docs` folder. However, this can take a long time to run, so if you have only modified a links in a single document, you can run:

```bash
make linkcheck-files FILES=path/to/your/document.md
```

### Next steps

Depending on the type of contribution you are making, you may be able to skip
some steps:

* If you are amending an existing document you can skip straight
  to [Step #3 - Preview your document](#3-preview-your-document)
* For all other documentation changes, follow the steps below.

(update-toc)=

> ## 2. Update the table of contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 2. Update the table of contents (TOC)
```

are automatically executed when the documentation is built and code problems can
also be caught when previewing the built documentation. If your documentation
change does not include code, you only need the napari docs dependencies

> installed (in which case you could also preview your document with the [VScode Myst extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ExecutableBookProject.myst-highlight) or [Myst live preview](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/live-preview.html#)).

Reviewer: I am actually not sure if this is useful. Because of how the docs are built, autogenerated images and formatting will not show up on the VScode interface and may give folks the false impression that something is broken.

Author: That's fair! I find it very useful to use the VScode Myst extension to live preview what I'm writing, with full understanding that I'm not looking at exactly what will be built due to some autogeneration. I understand that could be niche though. And I included the live preview link since that is similar to the Myst extension and I didn't want to vendor lock 😂 

I think there are two options then, open to either!
❌ Let's just remove any mention of Myst previews because the autogeneration differences will cause more confusion than the benefit of very quickly seeing document changes as you write.
✔️ Take that information out of brackets and expand it with explanation. Something like: "To see the markdown document structure and content change as you write it, you can use Myst markdown preview tools (such as Vscode and live preview). However, this preview page will have some differences to the final built html page, such as missing some autogenerated images and formatting.

Reviewer 2: I like the 2nd option.
